+++
title = "Writing a programming language"
description = "Lang is a statically typed, interpreted programming language.  It seeks to combine multiple popular paradigms without sacrificing expressiveness and ease of use"
[taxonomies]
tags = [ "lorem", "ipsum", "beginner" ]
+++

## Introduction

Lang is a statically typed, interpreted programming language.
It seeks to combine multiple popular paradigms without
sacrificing expressiveness and ease of use.

Lang, while multi-paradigm, is decidedly *functional first.*
Functional programming has a number of benefits.

Take the following code snippet, for example:

<div class="language-tag">Python</div>

```python
for i in arr:
    if i > 10:
        break
    print(i)
```

Many people will not see the problem with this code. The `break` keyword
should immediately signal, however, that something really ugly is going on.

This makes it hard to reason about code. **control flow is unpredictable.**
Who knows how many times `print(i)` will be called?

### Na fr though how many

Let's take a look, shall we:

<div class="language-tag">Rust code</div>

```rust
mod lang; // stupid

use lang::Token as T;
use lang::Whitespace::*;
use lang::Symbol::*;
use lang::Literal::*;

#[derive(Debug)]
pub(crate)
struct Lexer<'a> {
    source: &'a str,
    stack: Stack,
    tokens: Vec<T>,
}
```

---

Imperative code is:

* ugly

* hideous

* confusing
1. what's up with that `break`?

Richard Stallman once said:

> I, personally, have taken to calling it GNU+Linux.
> I find this significantly more epic.
>
> \- <cite>Richard Stallman[^1]</cite>


By contrast, take this functional program that's somewhat similar:

<div class="language-tag">Rust</div>

```rust
arr
  .filter(|x| x > 10)
  .map(|x| println!(x))
```

Or,

<div class="language-tag">Haskell</div>

```haskell
main :: IO ()
main = do
    map putStrLn $ filter (\x -> x > 10) arr

let class data type newtype where in
"string" 3 + 3 'c' instance case of deriving
```

This makes way more <mark>sense</mark>, probably. If you disagree, you're dumb?

***Q.E.D.***

---
[^1]: Richard Stallman has been known to [eat his own toe cheese.](https://google.com)
